♪
[men shouting]
[raucous shouting]
[rhythmic grunting and clapping]
[shouting continues]
[splashing]
LINCOLN:
You gotta do something;
my brother is innocent.
He's an American
citizen.
Look, there's nothing
I can do about that.
Of course there is--
back at the crime scene,
that'll prove...
Look, I'm a night
clerk, okay?
If you want someone
who can really
do something, you're
gonna have to wait
for the consul;
he gets in in the morning.
I'm sorry.
That ain't gonna cut it.
Your brother,
where do they have
him incarcerated?
Sona.
[sighs]
What?
The worst of the worst
are there,
men no other prison will take.
They rioted so badly
a year ago,
the guards pulled out,
just left them
to themselves.
A thousand thieves,
rapists, murderers.
keeps the perimeter.
[bone cracks]
To them, Sona's
a one-way street.
What goes in...
never comes out...
unless it's dead.
MAN:
Somebody didn't do their
due diligence on this guy,
and we need him moved
to a facility that's a little
more... moderate.
All right?
Thank you.
All right, the good news
is as of yesterday
you're a free man.
You got nothing
to worry about.
Just my brother.
Right. Well, that's a heck
of a story, you two.
That made the news
even down here.
And I understand you have
a son as well?
Yeah. Uh-huh.LJ-- Lincoln Jr.?
He must be ecstatic about your
exoneration.
Still trying to reach him.
Well, hey, tell us where he is.
We'll send...Let me handle that.
Let's just focus
on Michael.
Okay, well, good news is
is that much
of what you're saying is
checking out at the crime scene.
The victim did have
a service revolver
with U.S. government numbers
on it.
And if a weapon was found,
then that lends
real credence
to self-defense
as a motive.
Great.
They, uh, find anything else?
Like what?
A bag.
What was in it?
A little money.
Sorry.
Of course
they didn't.
Yeah, well, whatever the case,
regarding Michael,
I have managed
to make a little headway.
I arranged
for a transfer
for your brother
to another facility,
effective tomorrow.
It's a lot safer,
it's a lot cleaner.Great.
And if this is stacking up
like I think it is,
I'd be pretty confident
the charges will be dropped.
He'd be free?
Well, he'd still face charges
in the U.S.
But out of there?
Yes.
[flies buzzing]
[harsh scraping]
BELLICK:
Is there...
is there a mess hall here?
Mess hall?
And some water.
I'm dying of thirst. Please.
Please.
There's some water.
Bite me.
What'd you say?
I didn't say nothing.
Drink it.
You hear me?
Drink!
[all laughing]
Hey, get used to it, man.
I haven't eaten for days.
Come on.
[overlapping chatter]
[camera shutters snapping]
♪
[man cackling nearby]
How are you doing?
What do you want, Alex?
You're so clever-- like
planting the drugs on the boat.
That's a big irony.
Lawman in jail.
You are exactly where
you belong.
No, that's where
you're wrong.
And that's where
you're gonna help me.
I will have a court date
one of these days,
and you will be there
on the stand.
And you will tell the truth
that you planted this
and you set this up,
and I'm gonna go home.
That's funny, I could have
sworn you set this up.
I set this up?
I'm in here.
What does the Company
want with me?
Why Panama?
What, you think I know
what they wanted?
They had me.
I did what they
asked me to do-- arrest you
in Panama and
hand you over.
That's it. That's, that's...
That's old news, huh?
This is the first day
of the rest of our lives.
How about we work
together, you know?
Help each other out.
Except every time I look at you,
all I can see is the man
who killed my father.
You're on your own.
WOMAN [yelling]:
[yelling continues]
[buzzer sounds]
Sign here to say
that once inside,
you're on your own
by the law,
that you're not protected
by the military
in case of an assault.
And any attempt
to assist an inmate
trying to escape
will be met
with a lethal response.
Wouldn't dream of it.
[door opens and shuts]
So...
Feel like I'm on the wrong side.
You're on
the right side.
You're not.
Gonna break me out?
Too tiring.
All that running.
Yeah, well, maybe you should
have lost the cowboy boots.
You scared?
I'm getting you
out of here, man.No, Linc...
Listen, the Consulate's
arranged to transfer you
to a safer facility
until the trial...
which-which is about a month.
They say you got
a good shot of walking
out of here a free man.
When's the transfer?
Tomorrow.
Just... just hold on,
man, one more day.
You know, I keep waiting for you
to mention a certain someone.
I don't know where she is, man.
Well, you got to find her.
I will.
She's important
to me, Linc.
If anything happens to Sara...
It's going to be fine, man.
I promise.
I'll see you tomorrow.
All right?
[music blasting over stereo]
American, right?
I love America.
NBA. Tracy McGrady
shooting the ball in
the hoop from downtown.
Whatever you're selling,
I'm not buying.
Selling?
I just want to talk
basketball.
Who's your team?
Let's go, blanco.
Orientation.
I'm not interested.
It's not for you to decide.
[knock at door]
Bring them in.
Well, I hope they haven't been
treating you too poorly.
I should hear
of it if you have.
I think as you can tell,
Sona is unlike any other
place in the world.
Huh? Since the riots of last
year, they left us here to rot.
They figured we would
just destroy ourselves,
but instead, we've thrived.
With the canal,
Panama is now
a breeding ground for
international crime.
27 different nationalities
we have here.
But not one gang.
Not one racially-motivated
incident.
Huh?
It's just... me.
Egalitarianism,
I believe, is the word.
Huh? Did I get that right?
Right as rain.
That's what practice
does for you.
Now, is there anything, uh...
you want to tell me?
Any history that you
bring to this place
I should know about?
I don't think you're
quite telling me the truth,
Mr. Scofield.
We get the news, man.
You were quite the superstar
on CNN.
Man breaks brother out...
and flees to Panama.
[laughing]
But you're not
a superstar here!
You realize that,
don't you?
I'm not going to make waves.
It wouldn't be
within your power.
And I heard about
the two of you.
In the hall today.
Now, if you would like to
sort your problems out,
it's very simple here.
A man has a beef with another,
he makes his problem known.
Huh?
And then we deal
with it directly
as men... over there.
Won't be necessary.
You always
shake like that?
Huh?
Or just when you're
scared of someone?
[chuckles]
[blows landing]
I think he gets the message.
[mutters angrily]
We could go... you and me...
right here.
[chuckles lightly]
You're a brave man, huh?
Brave man.
You're lucky I've
been meditating.
Before, I couldn't
take my finger off the
trigger, but now...
now I have mind control.
Complete control.
Mind...
body...
and soul.
Get out!
Complete waste
of our time.
Who would have thought...
a famous person in Sona?
Weak people
rally around fame.
They worship it.
They're blinded by it.
And as you can tell,
there are many people
of weak character
behind these walls.
Yes, they will follow
a man like this,
and they will put him
on a pedestal.
He has that charisma,
right, mami?
He's no you.
Ah, you don't have
to pander me, mami.
Soy un hombre maduro.
Huh?
He's good looking, right?
Sí.
He's the best looking
man in the prison, right?
Not compared to you.
[gasps]
I told you, mami...
♪
[song blasts over radio]
MICHAEL:
Sara...
Sara Tancredi--
she's an American.
She's missing.
We don't have a report
of anything like that.
But if you do, you call me;
the number's on the back.
Okay, señor.
Anything, you call me,
all right?
Will do.
Thank you.
Where'd you get shoes?
[flies buzzing]
Hey, hey!
It's time to start earning
your rent around here.
There's no rent here.
It's prison.Keep talking.
It's going up.
Here.
Work time's started
right now.
Where?
Uh-uh. Hell, no.
Absolutely not.
[blow lands]
One more word from you,
and I will drown you
in here, you understand?
Now, work.
Burn it down in
the sewers when
you're done.
♪
MAN [over intercom]:
Scofield, visita.
[door bangs shut]
Ah, Mr. Scofield.
Elliot Pike.What do you want?
Well, to be frank,
to represent you.
You're a lawyer?
Of sorts.
The court already
appointed me a lawyer.
Then perhaps I can be of
assistance in a different way.
Somehow I doubt that.
I got a lot of big guns
behind me, Mr. Scofield,
people you might like
to have in your corner
should you ever decide,
say... to break out of here.
Who are you?
We can assist you
in every possible way
once you get past that wall.
There's a reason
a guy like you,
with your skill set,
was put in here, you know.
This conversation's over.
You ought to hear
what I have to say, Scofield.
We're trying to do
this the easy way.
[drumming continues in distance]
What the hell are you doing
taking my stash, huh?
Cough it up,
you little bitch.
I didn't do it.Where is it?!
Where is it, huh?!It wasn't me.
Hey!
You know the rules about
extra-curricular fights!
It doesn't happen here.
He took something
that belongs to me.
He's out of his mind.
Well, it seems
pretty easy
to get to the bottom
of this-- check him.
Check his area.
That's bull.
You're both
scumbags.
You and me, man.
We're not done here.
You haven't seen her?
No one like this has checked in?
No, señor.
You're absolutely sure?
[cell phone rings]Sí.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Mr. Burrows.
Captain Itzuris
at the constable's office.
We found an American woman
matching the description
of your friend, Ms. Tancredi.
Where?
At the morgue.
Uh, por favor, señor.
[speaks Spanish]
What's he saying?
That we can't eat.
What are we
supposed to eat?
They expect us to forage,
like dogs.
I'll die.
I will literally die.
[sobbing]
Hang in there, man.
♪
Playing by yourself.
Same old Pretty.
Just not good
at making friends, are you?
We got nothing to say
to each other.
On another note,
on a big picture note,
them big government types
that shook me down so hard,
why is it they wanted you here?
Was it Sona they was
interested in?
That's what I'm thinking.
Want me to get you down here,
up in this very county.
What do you think
it is, huh?
You think it's Sona?
Who'd be interested
in a dump like this?
MEN:
Runner! Runner!
[clamoring shouts]
Stop!
No! No!
[automatic gunfire]
[loud murmuring]
[breathing heavily]
LINCOLN:
Thanks for getting back to me.ITZURIS: No problem.
The body was fished
out of the pond
first thing this morning.Where?
Calle Sesenta-Seis.
Just west of Avenida Colon.
Sir?
That's the last
place I saw her.
It's not her.
Someone's thrown the glove
down on you.
The gauntlet, right?
Yeah, except we both know
I didn't take those drugs.
I'm not the judge.
I don't deal in the claims
people make.
I just make sure the
rules are followed.
And the rules say
all grievances are dealt with
two men in a ring-- a fight.
I'll be leaving tomorrow,
so that won't be necessary.
It may not be necessary to you,
but it is to me.
I have a duty
to maintain order here--
an ironclad legal system
that assures that
no one goes independent
with their grievances,
as is so often the case
in other prisons.
Here,
there is a system,
and that system means order.
So whether you
agree with it or not
does not matter to me.
There's a larger
agenda than yours.
What happens if I refuse?
We'll come for you.
And I can guarantee you
that is an outcome
that you will not like.
Tell me something...
do you always set up
your fights?
[chuckles]
I had nothing
to do with it.
And yet the only one
in this whole prison
who has a problem with me
is you.
I'll be glad to see
you go down...
superstar.
[water dripping]
Go on, keep going.
You burn it
around the corner.
Move it!
[soft whistle]
[airy whistle]
MAN:
Hey.
[hoarse]:
[Australian accent]:
Think you can do me a favor?
Bite me.
I can feed you.
A few weeks ago, I
was in your shoes.
Didn't get any food for days.
They'd have let me die,
just like they're
gonna let you die.
Get back to the "feed me" part.
Chicken.
Man, where'd you get
chicken?
That's not chicken.
Want some more?
Yeah.
Then you're gonna have
to run an errand for me.
What kind of errand?
[cell phone ringing]
LINCOLN:
Yeah.
Dad? It's me.LJ.
Where are you?
I'm in Panama.
What?
How...
How'd you get this number?
Well, I ran into Sara.
She got your number
from the consulate.
Dad, I'm cutting out.LJ...?
[static bursting]I can't hear you.
Dad, do this.
Meet us at the restaurant
in the Garfield Price building
at the top.
Garfield what?
8:30... [call drops]
[inmates shouting,
clapping rhythmically]
Time to fight,
blanco.
[clapping rhythmically]
Best to make your
peace with God, eh?
What? Even at 10-1?
There's a reason
he chose World.
Six consecutive
life terms, okay?
[speaking Spanish]
[laughing]:
I'm just kidding, man.
Tranquilo!
Surely, it's beneath
a man of your status
to be walking
around like that,
all sticky-like.
Leave him.
What do you propose?
Ablution.
[laughs]
A humble sign
of friendship
from a stranger
who's come into your house.
Sorry about that.
Just half a man down here.
What's your name,
norteño?
You can just
call me "friend."
Go for the kneecap.
You, uh... you hit it
straight on,
it'll buckle,
and you'll take the guy
out of commission.
Fighting dirty?
That's your secret?
I didn't think there was
any such thing as clean
in a place like this.
You know, I'm surprised, Alex.
It almost sounds like you care.
You're my
get-out-of-jail-free card.
Just survive.
Kneecap, really hard.
[sighs sharply]
[inmates yelling]
[yelling continues]
Good luck, man.
God bless, man.
[yelling continues]
We have a disagreement
between two dogs--
a drug addict and a thief.
And I condone neither.
And I wash my hands
of both of them.
But they have an issue,
and we have rules.
And without rules, we're
nothing but savages.
Therefore, with proper
respect for the rules,
this fight is engaged
with only one rule--
no weapons.
Only man versus man,
without augmentation
or handicap.
I'm done talking.
[intense shouting]
I'm not going to fight!
[shouting]
I don't think you
understand the rules, friend.
Only one man comes out alive.
[inmates yelling]
[yelling continues]
It's over!
INMATE: Finish it!MICHAEL:
Let me through.
Let me go.
[bone snapping]
[panting]
MAHONE:
No weapons!
Rules are rules.
Remember?
And if we don't have them...
we're savages.
Oh, excuse me.
You have no jacket.
Come on, man. I'm just meeting
someone. Give me a break.
Well, this is a nice place.
It requires jackets.
Well, I don't
have a jacket.
It requires jackets.
Fine.
Excuse me.
You speak English?
How about American?
Can I grab a water, please?
Please tell me
you didn't come
all the way to Panama
for the water.
Family.
That's a nice jacket, Sergio.
It's a long story.
Thank you.
You're waiting for someone, huh?
Uh-huh.
I should
have known.
Good-looking ones
are always taken.
What happened
to your face?
A cat.
Cat. It's a big cat.
You push anything
too far into a corner,
and the claws will come out.
Your timing's all wrong, lady.
Oh, come on. Hang out.
I'd like to...
but it ain't the right time.
Yes, it is, Lincoln.
We have a lot to discuss.
Specifically, your brother.
I highly suggest
you talk to him.
[woman shouting in Spanish]
WOMAN:
Hey!
[indistinct voices]
♪
[gunshots]
[flies buzzing]
♪
Hey.
How are we coming
with the transfer?
There are some people
that want you
to break someone out of there.
Yeah, I know.
Some guy already approached me.
I said, "No, thank you."
You got to stay.
What are you talking about?
LINCOLN:
His name's James Whistler.
No, no, no, no, Linc,
I can't do that again.
Michael.
MAN:
Talk.
Dad.
Dad, I'm so sorry.
They got me and Sara.
Please, do what they want.
Dad, please.
You got a week
to find this Whistler guy.
Get him out of there.
Otherwise, they, uh...
Sara and LJ...
they both die.